USF-1132: Storefront Implementation Guide (#73)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/implementation/setup/dropins-and-widgets.mdx

---
title: Dropins and widgets
description: Add dropins and widgets to your Adobe Commerce storefront on Edge Delivery Services project.
---

Depending on the outcome of the discovery phase, you can add dropins and widgets to the project.

> You can find the integration patterns for dropins and widgets as pull requests in the [commerce boilerplate repository](https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the integration patterns for dropins and widgets as pull requests in the [Commerce boilerplate repository](https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce).
```

> The PLP/Search and autocomplete widgets can be fully customized. You can create project-specific forks of the source code [repository](https://github.com/adobe/storefront-product-listing-page). The boilerplate uses a [fork](https://github.com/herzog31/storefront-product-listing-page) with more optimizations. Consider open pull requests, which might contain unmerged improvements for Edge Delivery Services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PLP/Search and autocomplete widgets can be fully customized. You can create project-specific forks of the source code [repository](https://github.com/adobe/storefront-product-listing-page). The boilerplate uses a [fork](https://github.com/herzog31/storefront-product-listing-page) with more optimizations. Review open pull requests, which might contain unmerged improvements for Edge Delivery Services.
```

The source code of dropins is private. You can add them to your project as NPM packages:

>  * `@dropins/storefront-cart`

Reviewer: I think you're missing user account from this list.

 * `@dropins/storefront-checkout`
 * `@dropins/storefront-auth`
 * `@dropins/storefront-order-confirmation`
 * `@dropins/storefront-pdp`
 * `@dropins/tools`
  
:::note
Adobe recommends using the documented [extension](/dropins/all/extending/) patterns for dropins.
:::

> If dropins and widgets cannot be used, use the custom PDP and PLP/Search blocks that come with the Commerce boilerplate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you cannot use dropins and widgets, use the custom PDP and PLP/Search blocks that come with the Commerce boilerplate.
```

## URL format of catalog pages

> By default the boilerplate uses [folder mapping](https://www.aem.live/developer/folder-mapping) for product detail pages (PDP) and dedicated pages for product list pages (PLP). If your catalog has a large amount of PLPs, it might make sense to use folder mapping also for PLPs. While a low number of PDPs or PLPs could justify creating dedicated pages for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the boilerplate uses [folder mapping](https://www.aem.live/developer/folder-mapping) for product detail pages (PDP) and dedicated pages for product list pages (PLP). If your catalog has a large amount of PLPs, it might make sense to also use folder mapping for PLPs. A low number of PDPs or PLPs could justify creating dedicated pages for each.
```

The URL format for folder mapped PDPs looks like this:

```plaintext
/products/{urlKey}/{sku}
```

> This is to include the SEO relevant `urlKey` parameter and the `SKU` which is needed to perform Catalog Service queries. Feel free to customize the format as needed. Advanced customization might have to be done on the CDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is to include the SEO relevant `urlKey` parameter and the `SKU` which is needed to perform Catalog Service queries. Feel free to customize the format as needed. You might need to do advanced customization on the CDN.
```
